---
layout: post
title: "Loops"
date: "2018-08-23 16:16:27 -0700"
categories: JavaScript
description: How to repeatedly executing a code? & FizzBuzz Example
---

Loops will let you iterate over values and repeatedly run a block of code.

## While Loops

There are many different kinds of loops, but they all essentially do the same thing: they repeat an action some number of times.

Three main pieces of information that any loop should have are:

  - When to start: The code that sets up the loop — defining the starting value of a variable for instance.

  - When to stop: The logical condition to test whether the loop should continue.

  - How to get to the next item: The incrementing or decrementing step — for example, `x = x * 3` or `x = x - 1`

Here's a basic while loop example that includes all three parts.

{% highlight js %}
var start = 0; // when to start
while (start < 10) { // when to stop
  console.log(start);
  start = start + 2; // how to get to the next item
}
{% endhighlight %}

Console will print:
`0
2
4
6
8`

💥 If a loop is missing any of these three things, then you might find yourself in trouble. For instance, a missing stop condition can result in a loop that never ends!

{% highlight js %}
//Don't run this code!
while (true) {
  console.log("true is never false, so I will never stop!");
}
{% endhighlight %}

💥 If you did try to run that code in the console, you probably crashed your browser tab. End the infinite loop by... [Chrome] go to the taskbar and select Window > Task Manager. You can end the process for the particular tab you ran the script in through the task manager.

Here's an example where a loop is missing how to get to the next item; the variable x is never incremented. x will remain 0 throughout the program, so the loop will never end. This code will also crash your browser tab!!!

{% highlight js %}
//Don't run this code!
var x = 0;

while (x < 1) {
  console.log('Oops! x is never incremented from 0, so i will ALWAYS be less than 1');
}
{% endhighlight %}

## FizzBuzz example

"Fizzbuzz" is a famous interview question used in programming interviews. It goes something like this:

  - Loop through the numbers 1 to 100

  - If the number is divisible by 3, print "Fizz"

  - If the number is divisible by 5, print "Buzz"

  - If the number is divisible by both 3 and 5, print "FizzBuzz"

  - If the number is not divisible by 3 or 5, print the number

💥 A number `x` is divisible by a number `y` if the answer to `x / y` has a remainder of `0`. For example, 10 is divisible by `2` because `10 / 2 = 5` with no remainder. You can check if a number is divisible by another number by checking if `x` % `y === 0`.

We're going to have you program your own version of FizzBuzz called `"JuliaJames"` (yes, imaginative, right?) Keep in mind that in an interview, you would want to write efficient code with very little duplication. We don't want you to worry about that for this question. Just focus on practicing using loops.

#### Directions: Write a while loop that...

  - Loop through the numbers 1 to 20

  - If the number is divisible by 3, print "Julia"

  - If the number is divisible by 5, print "James"

  - If the number is divisible by 3 and 5, print "JuliaJames"

  - If the number is not divisible by 3 or 5, print the number

{% highlight js %}

var x = 1;

while (x<=20) {
    if (x%3===0 && x%5===0){
        console.log("JuliaJames");
    }else if (x%3===0){
        console.log("Julia");
    }else if (x%5===0){
        console.log("James");
    }else{
        console.log(x);
    }
    x=x+1;
}
{% endhighlight %}

👓 See another example of [FizzBuzz]({% post_url 2018-07-10-fizz-buzz %}).
